Our view settings allow us to configure Site Search tracking.
In the merchandise store test account,
we can access the search terms report,
behaviour, site search, search terms.
The search terms report is unique in Google Analytics in
that it shows us specifically what users are searching for,
what they're inputting on their own.
So, it's a unique opportunity to understand what our visitors are seeking.
Now, the search terms report won't be populated by default,
but in most cases it is an easy view
setting that allows us to configure the search terms report.
The first thing that we want to do is to go to
the website that we're tracking and perform a search.
So, if we search for a hat,
we see in this case that we actually have the search term appearing twice.
Key equals hat and keyword equals hat.
So, we have two query parameters to choose from.
If we searched for a shirt,
here we also see key equals shirt keyword equal shirt.
Let's look at another example.
If we're on eBay and we search for solar panel,
we have ampersand underscore NKW, equals solar panel.
So, in this case underscore NKW would be the key that
we would use to identify the search parameter in the URL.
What we would need to do to configure
the search reports would be to go into the view settings,
again first in our test view,
turn on site search tracking and here's where we add the query parameter.
In the case of the Google merchandise store,
we saw that we could use key or keyword.
It's a little bit unusual to have the search term appearing twice in the results URL,
but in the case of the merchandise store we could use either and the case
of eBay we would use underscore NKW.
Whatever the query parameter is in the URL,
that indicates the search string,
that's what we use to configure site search in Google Analytics and we could
also check this box for stripping the query perimeters out of the URL so
we don't have to strip the query parameters out as we did in
the previous section focusing on the URL query parameter consolidation.
If we have site search categories,
we could populate those as well,
those are less common.
Let's consider another case where the search term does not appear in
the results page URL and the name equals value pair format,
but just incorporated right into the path of the URL.
In this case, we couldn't use the view setting to configure site search.
Again, we would need to use a filter and a regular expression.
We would specifically use an advanced filter with a matching group.
We would extract that matching group and output
it from the request URL to the search term.
So, this scenario where the search term doesn't appear as
name equals value is just a little bit more of a challenge to configure,
but still completely doable.
Once the site search reports are populated,
there are just a few things that we'll want to consider.
We can add start pages a secondary dimension to see on which page the search originated.
Don't be surprised to see entrances as a start page because search results pages
can be linked to directly and sometimes they can even be indexed in search engines.
If we add start page as a secondary dimension we will see in fact that in
many cases a search results page was accessed
directly either through a link or through indexing in a search engine.
Another thing that we'll want to consider with site searches is just to
verify in fact that there are multiple users who are performing the searches.
If we see a great number of searches for a specific term,
sometimes that can originate from one person or a small number of people.
We can quickly verify that the searches are being performed by different people by
adding a pretty granular secondary dimension something like city or browser version.
I'm going to go ahead and add city,
and we do see in fact that the search terms are quite broken up over different cities.
So, we could be reasonably sure that there
are different people performing these searches.
We can add search destination page as a secondary dimension to see where visitors are
going after performing a search or if an exit occurred,
in which case the search results pages themselves may need some optimization.